So Netflix, Google, PayPal,
American Express, Twitch,
Twitter, a lot of companies are using or
moving into Go.
For which parts?
For the backend?
It depends, typically for services,
microservices, web services.
Sometimes the web services are still
Node.js, but there is still another
part of the process that is Go,
they're are moving parts individually or
they start a new project and
they start that project using Go.
So it depends, because it's multipurpose,
you can even do frontend
with Go if you want to.
I'm not saying that it's a good idea, or
that we have a lot of websites created
in Go, but it's possible, okay?
So, before actually coding, value and
philosophy around the language.
Simplicity, we already mentioned that.
It's a language that knows
the existence of network requests and
concurrency execution.
So, from scratch we know
that we will use a network.
So, it's part of the core that we can
make a HTTP request or we can parse JSON.
We don't need an additional library.
It's not like a hack or
something that they have added, no,
it's part of the deal.
The same with concurrent
execution because we are going to
download things that takes time.
We can do several things in parallel.
So from scratch, they thought about
how we can solve the problem.
So when you were asking about if we are
going to cover concurrency, we are going
to do that and we're going to see how
different it is from other languages.
So doing threading, so executing several
tasks at the same time is completely
different from Java, or from other
languages, or even from JavaScript.
And it's much simpler, it's actually
pretty simple to make it work.
So, we are going to be library free,
so Bonilla Go if you want for
string manipulation,
network, compression, and
file management testing,
that's also pretty cool.
We don't need to use
an external testing library,
the basics of testing are there.
Again, disclaimer,
everything is under the three goals, okay?
Simplicity, efficiency and execution,
efficiency and compilation.
So I'm saying this because maybe
you will see how testing is done,
at first you won't like.
The reason is always because we
wanna keep those three goals.
If you are new to programming,
maybe you will like it.
But if you are used to a different
paradigm, you are expecting to continue
that paradigm in Go, and
that won't be possible.
You need to adapt to Go paradigm.
That's why also there is a lot of
hate on Go, it's not just love.
That are typically developer
from other languages and
they didn't actually shaped a lot of Go so
far,
they hate the language,
they hate that lack of freedom.
We don't have enough
freedom in the language.
You understand what I mean in a second.
Well, it's called cross-platform
backwards compatibility,
we have already mentioned that.
And it has a powerful command line
interface to actually do everything
we need.
That compared with other languages also,
we don't need to do a lot of stuff.
You will see it's simple as the language,
okay?
So that's the Go CLI, we are not
going to go one by one right now.
We're going to do directly this with code,
but you can initialize the project.
You can build from that, you can test.
Again, you don't need the test runner, you
can just use the Go CLI to run your test.
Of course, that visual studio code or
all the IDs are integrated with the CLI.
So, you will get your standard
experience in your IDE.
Documentation, so
you can generate the documentation and
you can read the documentation
from the CLI.
Well, sometimes it's pretty cool.
So if you have a question instead of using
Google, you can open the terminal and
you can ask the CLI about
a function within a package, okay?
Again, if you're using an ID,
it's going to be integrated that there,
but it's cool to have.
So for the tools that we need today,
as I mentioned before,
we need to download Go, the Go runtime.
It's including the CLI, so we don't
need to download the Go CLI apart.
I'm going to use Visual Studio Code
because it has the better Plugins
that we are going to use, but
if you like other IDE, go ahead.
There is an official Plugin for Go in
theVisual Studio Code Plugin Library,
I will show you which one it is.
And that plugin,
the first time you open a .go file,
will ask you to download additional
tools that includes a linter.
Do you know what a linter is?
No, you wanna-
>> Something that cleans up common code
syntax and small errors.
>> Well, actually the lidar,
is not cleaning up anything
>> Point out.
>> It's pointing out that, yeah,
you might have a problem there.
So some people has a confusion
between the compiler and the linter.
The linter is not a compiler,
it's at the static analysis.
That is analyzing your code and
is finding bad practices if you want, or
problems that you might have, or
it's going to highlight design patterns or
start guidelines that
you're not following.
For example, if something needs to
start with a capital letter and
you're not doing that, it will give
you a warning, that's a linter.
Maybe it compiles anyway,
but you're not following the rules
that the linter will complain.
So we will see the linter in action, okay?
But in this case, the VS Code plugin
will download everything from us.